Bibliography (#115)
OSGeo/grass-tutorials: CONTRIBUTING.md

![Slope map](slope.webp){.preview-image}
```

## References

To cite references, 
you should create a bibtex file with bibliographic entries,
reference the bibliography and citation style in your tutorial's frontmatter,

> and then add citations in Markdown to your tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and then add the citations in Markdown format in the text body.
```

A list of works cited will be automatically generated at the end of your tutorial.
Please use the acm.csl citation style that is in the root of the project. 

Save a bibtex file in your tutorial directory:

```bibtex
@software{GRASS:2025,
title = {{GRASS}},
author = {{GRASS Development Team}},
organization = {Open Source Geospatial Foundation},
doi = {10.5281/zenodo.5176030},
license = {GPL-2.0-or-later},
month = {11},
url = {https://github.com/OSGeo/grass},
version = {8.4.2},
year = {2025}
}
```

Reference your bibtex file
and the project's citation style language file
in your tutorial's YAML frontmatter:

```yaml
bibliography: tutorial.bib

> csl: ../../../acm.csl

Reviewer: @cwhite911, is this recommended practice, i.e., use relative paths?

Reviewer 2: I would prefer absolute path, I believe that should work, but didn't test.

Author: @petrasovaa @veroandreo How about using a project relative path? 
```/acm.csl```

Reviewer 2: That's what I was thinking, but I didn't test.

Author: @petrasovaa I just tested and it failed. Unfortunately `/acm.csl` doesn't work as Quarto treats the current file as the working directory. Perhaps we could override this by setting `execute-dir: project` in _quarto.yml (see [docs](https://quarto.org/docs/projects/code-execution.html#working-dir)), but that might break things.

Reviewer 2: I tried to put in _quarto.yml and that seems to work.
```
...
format:
  html:
    theme: [pandoc, brand, theme.scss]
    toc: true
    toc-title: Table of Contents
    link-external-newwindow: true
    csl: acm.csl
...
```

Then you don't need to have it in the individual tutorials at all, it gets inherited.

```

In your tutorial, 
add citations in Markdown with `[@citation]`.
This will create an inline citation

> and automatically generate a bibliography

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and automatically generate the bibliography list
```
